# 50 Kart
#### Video Demo:  <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1S3B6ToDj8Y>
#### Description: 50 Kart is a game made using Unit and is based off of Mario Kart. The goal is to get through the checkpoints before the timer runs out! 

This project was made using Unity Game Engine 2020. This is a cross platform engine that was made to help users create and develope games themselves. For the final 4 assignments Unity Game Engine was used and I wanted to use it for the final assignment as well. But the problem was, I had no clue what to do for my assignment. 

Since I am part of the CS50 Discord server I asked around people trying to find an idea of what I want to do. Many people suggested I give a look at the Unity Game Engine 2020. So I went on there and saw that they teach you how to create a game that seems similar to Mario Kart. The only difference was that I didn't add powerups but I added checkpoints and a timer. Most of the ingame mechanics such as movement was given to the creator. 

The main focus of this project was making the track challenging but not too challenging where the player is not able to get throuugh the checkpoints in under 1 minute. All of the in game features such as tracks and obstacles are in the game engine itself. It is my responsiblity to change game name, enable a timer, and make movement of the kart possible. 

Too make this work I was given the Microgame project, which had most of the game files and now I am going to be explaining step by step what I did to make this project work. So first we had to download the file and open up the Hierarchy window. Next I will click on the “ObjectiveTimeLimit” GameObject and look at the Inspector window. In this Mod, I'll be using the Time Limit game mode. In the Microgame, the Objective scripts control the game mode logic, and can be configured to suit a variety of game modes.

The “Time Limit” game mode is controlled by the ObjectiveReachTargets component on the ObjectiveTimeLimit gameObject. I have to click on it in the Hierarchy, then look at the Inspector window. Under “Objective Reach Targets” I made sure the dropdown arrow is expanded and observe the field options. Next I went to the find Game Mode parameter, and set it to "Time Limit." Now that we have the Time Limit set we need to make the game more harder. So I decided to create ramps. To set up ramps and move the checkpoints so that players have to jump through them. To keep the scene clean, I created a parent GameObject under which we will keep the ramps. Then I Right-clicked in the Hierarchy and click on Create Empty. Another way to do this is to click on the "Create Empty" which will create a blank GameObject then I can add it to the scene. Next I right click on "Rename" and name it "Ramps." 

Next I went into Project View then dragged the "StuntJump" prefab into the Heirarchy onto the "Ramps." So not only will this put the ramp on the scene it will be much easier to move them around. Next step is to add a a Checkpoint.  In the Project View, navigate to Assets >  Karting > Prefabs > Props > Checkpoint. Next I dragged the “Checkpoint” prefab into the Hierarchy into the “StuntJump” so that the new “Checkpoint” is a child of the ramp that it is for. The “Checkpoint” now inherits the transform properties of its parent, the “StuntJump”, so that when I move the “StuntJump”, will be moving its “Checkpoint” as well. The new “Checkpoint” is conveniently placed around its “Ramp." The final step is to add basically a game over screen or a celebration VFX. For this I had to go into Assests > Karting > Prefabs > VFX > CheckpointConfettSelect a “Checkpoint” in the Hierarchy that you want to modify. Each “Checkpoint” has a field in its Inspector called “Spawn Prefab On Pickup”. Next I have to Drag the "CheckpointConfetti” prefab into the Spawn Prefab On Pickup field in the Inspector window. Next I Set the Destroy Spawn Prefab to 5 seconds. When the player reaches the checkpoint, it will spawn the “CheckpointConfetti” prefab and then destroy it in 5 seconds. And that is the end of the ReadMe for more questions please contact me at tmurikken@yahoo.com 
